A lot of ideas that you have seem like really good ones and maybe are really good ones but are potentially going to be morphed in ways that you do not like in the development of enterprise software and that's just a risk that you have to take in order to get some of your work and ideas out to a larger audience because the only way that you can actually implement your ideas to your specifications is by doing it yourself but that limits the scope of your project if you want to get it out to a whole lot of people you need a whole lot of people to work with you which means your ideas are going to be iterated on in ways that you may not like

Empathy is probably the most important skill in software development. Try to understand where the person that's debating with you is coming from. There's either validity in their idea, or an opportunity to share battle-earned knowledge.

Learn from Your Mistakes

Allowing reported issues to result in zero action is the quickest way to convert your employees, especially your engineers, from enthusiastic company-first workers into "clock in, clock out, it’s not my problem" workers. Most employees, again especially engineers, want to improve the company and themselves… until you prove that their thoughts do not matter.
- https://allarsblog.com/2018/03/16/confessions-of-an-unreal-engine-4-engineering-firefighter/

As a manager, you can tell if an engineer is happy with their work if they are comfortable with giving higher-ups constructive feedback about issues at hand directly. As an engineer, you can tell if a manager is actively working for you if you see at least some action performed as a response to your feedback. When both things happen, management might see an increase in reported problems during development, but they'll also see an increase in resolutions, instead of seeing fewer but critical issues that go unresolved. Burndown charts are a great tool for identifying which camp you are in. Assuming you are using issue tracking software correctly, if you are seeing erratic spikes and inconsistent numbers week-to-week regarding your number of open problems to number of problems solved, your team is not working at their full capacity. There is a good chance that there are underlying problems affecting your team. Sit with them and actually listen to them, but more importantly, take action. In many cases, even the wrong action for the right reason is better than no action, if you're willing to admit a mistake. If your burn trajectory has a consistent slope (i.e. a straight line), your team is most likely operating as they should, and I would have no reason to be on-site.
All this being said, just because you have an outspoken engineer who shouts about development issues every day does not mean your team is healthy. If only one engineer on a team is causing problems, and you have no lead present, usually one of two situations is occurring. That person may actually deserve to be your lead and his/her fellow engineers are trusting them to make the changes needed, or that engineer is just an asshole. Sitting down with your engineering team, and treating them with respect, will quickly let you know which situation you are in. Treating them with respect and valuing your employees’ feedback is usually the best way to always identify the situation you are in.
- https://allarsblog.com/2018/03/16/confessions-of-an-unreal-engine-4-engineering-firefighter/

If you constantly find yourself arguing with those at your side about implementation details but know when to compromise and are able to do so in a way that boosts morale instead of degrading it, there is a good chance you are a mid-level engineer transitioning to either senior-level or becoming a lead but are simply lacking the skill experience to see it through. Skill experience here would allow you to speak with more authority and to present implementation ideas that are more sound overall, requiring less debate assuming that you are correct in your implementation. Skill experience here also allows you to quickly back down and admit failure when you are indeed wrong about implementation details.
- https://allarsblog.com/2018/03/16/confessions-of-an-unreal-engine-4-engineering-firefighter/

Becoming a senior-level engineer is about being able to recognize what is right and being able to deliver on it. Staying a senior-level is about honing your focus, staying disciplined, and not repeating mistakes. Making mistakes does not make you a lesser engineer, not learning from your mistakes does.

Treat Warnings as Errors, Treat Errors as Sins: "Oh, that warning has been there for months, you can ignore it." No. It is warning you about something for a reason. Ignoring warnings cause cascading problems. If you are ignoring errors, you are shooting yourself in the foot. They are errors for a reason.
- https://allarsblog.com/2018/03/16/confessions-of-an-unreal-engine-4-engineering-firefighter/

It Works on My Machine: If you encounter a problem that 'works on my machine but not yours', do a file diff immediately between the two systems. 90% of the time the diff will show the issue. If the diff reports that both are identical, the issue may actually be system related.
- https://allarsblog.com/2018/03/16/confessions-of-an-unreal-engine-4-engineering-firefighter/

You Don't Need 500 Pickupable Objects: No, the lag is not worth being able to pick up a single crayon from a box of 256 crayons. Unless your game is about crayons.
- https://allarsblog.com/2018/03/16/confessions-of-an-unreal-engine-4-engineering-firefighter/

Sometimes you won't get individual credit for awesome things you've done. Often, that won't matter. Software development is about teams. Everyone works and everyone gets credit. What you should really focus on is making the product better. Recognition will come.
